Title: Intro To Peach
Published: 8/4/2021 11:15 AM
---
Princess Peach might be a stereotypical damsel in distress in the mainline Mario games, but let’s make something clear right now: Peach is force of nature when you understand what’s happening with her in this children’s party game. She falls into the archetype of having immense power and survivability while also not possessing that much ground speed or that many good grounded options. Her dash speed is the slowest in amongst the top 10 and is susceptible to camping because of it. She also has few grounded midrange options so if someone stays right out of your threat range it can be kinda painful. Despite having some issues that can be abused, Peach has many positives going for her that make her a fine character to pick up.

The majority of her aerials have much use and possess some of the best frame data in the game to make up for her slow dash and walk speed. Nair, Uair, Bair are quick aerials that have a lot of power and with all three having weak and strong hitboxes, adding a new level of potency with her combo game can be reached. Bair has a ton of force that can wall most approaches out and Uair is a great combo tool. Nair, however, steals the show and you’ll see why in a bit. Fair is the slowest, but slaps recovering enemies into the blastzone and is a great neutral zoning tool.

Turnips are one of the best projectiles in the game. She has a few options she can randomly pull. From bombs, beamswords, dot-eyes, and the famous stitchface, she can pull many non standard turnips that can keep the opponent on their toes. Turnips give her a long range option with many different throw types that can cover a lot of space. They also can be a helpful edgeguarding tool as well as you can snipe Foxes and Falcos out of their recoveries and watch them fall to their deaths. 

Peach lives for a lot longer than the other cast. For one, she’s a floatie (lightweight character) which means she can stay in the air awhile. Peach’s jumps are also crazy good, she has a large second jump and the ability to float in midair which makes horizontal recovery easier than other characters in her tier like Falcon and Sheik. Her parasol has a lot of vertical reach as well so getting height isn’t an issue, and due to the parasol having a hitbox when deployed it makes it hard to challenge without proper positioning. If she is in freefall after using parasol, she gets less landing lag than she does when not in free fall so it’s helpful to remember this. On stages like FoD and Yoshi’s Story, she can use the Peach Bomber on the sides of the map to recover from the near bottom of the screen (or to stall like a degen on FoD). 

Peach’s combo game and ability to extend offstage to finish people off is something different than anything else in the game. Because of her ability to float, she can go offstage farther than most other characters to finish off opponents with flashy moves and overkills. Don’t be afraid to reach further out than you’re used to, you can most likely return back to stage. Your best options for extending combos are mixing up weak hits of moves into strong hits. 

However, there’s a catch with Peach. She can get camped very hard by characters faster than her or with moves that can outreach her. Fox and Jigglypuff can camp Peach very hard with how mobile they can be and with both having access to tools to exploit Peach’s weaknesses. Fox can run around and laser camp Peach until upsmash happens while Puff can punish bad approaches with Bair and take a stock. Normally you can camp turnips back but they can react to this. She also has poor midrange options outside of dash attack, which means she has to be either far away enough to pull a turnip and control space with that, get close to you so she can abuse her insane frame data for a combo, or use dash attack. 

Hopefully this summarizes the basics to know about Peach, reading this you should have a better understanding of the pros and cons of picking Peach and get a faint idea of what she can do. In the next part we will go over her frame data and her moveset, get ready for some stats and numbers.